Refactor installation pages (#18282)
mistercrunch/Airflow: docs/apache-airflow/installation/index.rst

    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

Installation
------------

.. contents:: :local:

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :caption: Installation
    :hidden:

    Prerequisites <prerequisites>
    Dependencies <dependencies>
    Supported versions <supported-versions>
    Installing from sources <installing-from-sources>
    Installing from PyPI <installing-from-pypi>
    Setting up the database <setting-up-the-database>
    Upgrading to Airflow 2 <upgrading-to-2>

>     Upgrade Check <upgrade-check>

Reviewer: This feels like a separation Upgrading section instead of installation, wdyt?

Author: Why not. Let me try

Author: Nicer indeed (I also shortened some menus and changed it explicitly to "Upgrading 1.10 to 2".

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/595491/133696629-0e88e02b-cc4f-4c5f-b54f-9ac4c254a2ed.png)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/595491/133696689-3e195f5f-1b06-4a8d-a707-433e94d25ca5.png)

You should also check-out the :doc:`Prerequisites <prerequisites>` that must be fulfilled when installing Airflow
as well as  :doc:`Supported versions <supported-versions>` to know what are the policies for supporting
Airflow, Python and Kubernetes.

Airflow requires additional :doc:`Dependencies <dependencies>` to be installed - which can be done
via extras and providers.

When you install Airflow, you need to :doc:`setup the database <setting-up-the-database>` which must be
kept updated when airflow is upgraded.

If you came here to upgrade Airflow from 1.10 version (which is end-of-life already), follow the
:doc:`Upgrading to Airflow 2 <upgrading-to-2>`.

Using released sources
''''''''''''''''''''''

More details: :doc:`installing-from-sources`

**When this option works best**

* This option is best if you expect to build all your software from sources.
* Apache Airflow is one of the projects that belong to the `Apache Software Foundation <https://www.apache.org/>`__ .
  It is a requirement for all ASF projects that they can be installed using official sources released via `Official Apache Mirrors <http://ws.apache.org/mirrors.cgi/>`__ .

> * This is the best choice you have strong need to `Verify the integrity and provenance of the software <https://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi#verify>`__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* This is the best choice if you have a strong need to `verify the integrity and provenance of the software <https://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi#verify>`__
```

  However this is just an inspiration. Do not expect this docker-compose is ready for production installation,
  you need to build your own production-ready deployment in this approach.

**Where to ask for help**

* The ``#troubleshooting`` channel on Airflow Slack for quick general
  troubleshooting questions. The `GitHub discussions <https://github.com/apache/airflow/discussions>`__
  if you look for longer discussion and have more information to share.
* If you can provide description of a reproducible problem with Airflow software, you can open
  issue at `GitHub issues <https://github.com/apache/airflow/issues>`__

Using Production Docker Images
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

More details: :doc:`docker-stack:index`

**When this option works best**

This installation method is useful when you are familiar with Container/Docker stack. It provides a capability of
running Airflow components in isolation from other software running on the same physical or virtual machines with easy
maintenance of dependencies.

The images are build by Apache Airflow release managers and they use officially released packages from PyPI

> and official constraint files- same that are used for installing Airflow from PyPI.

Reviewer: I feel all the "When this options works best", "Intended Users", "Expected to handle" can be summarized in a table instead of separate paragraph so it is easy to compare, or a separate section on "Which method of Installation should be used?"

Author: I tried. But our table layout is TERRIBLE - the table expands beyond available space and it looks REALLY bad as you see only 20% of the table and you need to scroll horizontally to see the rest.

Author: I will try to fix it though, because I also think table format would be much, much better

    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

Installation
------------

.. contents:: :local:

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :caption: Installation
    :hidden:

    Prerequisites <prerequisites>
    Dependencies <dependencies>
    Supported versions <supported-versions>
    Installing from sources <installing-from-sources>
    Installing from PyPI <installing-from-pypi>
    Setting up the database <setting-up-the-database>

This page describes installations options that you might use when considering how to install Airflow.
Airflow consists of many components, often distributed among many physical or virtual machines, therefore
installation of Airflow might be quite complex, depending on the options you choose.

You should also check-out the :doc:`Prerequisites <prerequisites>` that must be fulfilled when installing Airflow
as well as  :doc:`Supported versions <supported-versions>` to know what are the policies for supporting
Airflow, Python and Kubernetes.

Airflow requires additional :doc:`Dependencies <dependencies>` to be installed - which can be done
via extras and providers.

> When you install Airflow, you need to :doc:`setup the database <setting-up-the-database>` which must

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you install Airflow, you need to :doc:`setup the database <setting-up-the-database>`, which must
```

also be kept updated when Airflow is upgraded.

.. warning::

>   As of June 2021 Airflow 1.10 is end-of-life and is not going to receive any fixes even critical

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  As of June 2021 Airflow 1.10 is end-of-life and will not receive any fixes, even critical
```

  security fixes. Follow the :doc:`/upgrading-from-1-10/index` to learn
  how to upgrade the end-of-life 1.10 to Airflow 2.

Using released sources
''''''''''''''''''''''

More details: :doc:`installing-from-sources`

**When this option works best**

* This option is best if you expect to build all your software from sources.
* Apache Airflow is one of the projects that belong to the `Apache Software Foundation <https://www.apache.org/>`__ .
  It is a requirement for all ASF projects that they can be installed using official sources released via `Official Apache Mirrors <http://ws.apache.org/mirrors.cgi/>`__ .
* This is the best choice if you have a strong need to `verify the integrity and provenance of the software <https://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi#verify>`__

**Intended users**

* Users who are familiar with installing and building software from sources and are conscious about integrity and provenance
  of the software they use down to the lowest level possible.

**What are you expected to handle**

> * You are expected to build and install airflow and its components on your own.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You are expected to build and install Airflow and its components on your own.
```

via extras and providers.

When you install Airflow, you need to :doc:`setup the database <setting-up-the-database>` which must be
kept updated when airflow is upgraded.

If you came here to upgrade Airflow from 1.10 version (which is end-of-life already), follow the
:doc:`Upgrading to Airflow 2 <upgrading-to-2>`.

Using released sources
''''''''''''''''''''''

More details: :doc:`installing-from-sources`

**When this option works best**

This option is best if you expect to build all your software from sources.
Apache Airflow is one of the projects that belong to the `Apache Software Foundation <https://www.apache.org/>`__ .
It is a requirement for all ASF projects that they can be installed using official sources released via `Official Apache Mirrors <http://ws.apache.org/mirrors.cgi/>`__ .
You can easily `Verify the integrity and provenance of the software <https://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi#verify>`__

**Intended users**

Users who are familiar with installing and building software from sources and are conscious about integrity and provenance
of the software they use down to the lowest level possible.

**What are you expected to handle**

> You are expected to build and install airflow and its components on your own.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You are expected to build and install Airflow and its components on your own.
```

if you look for longer discussion and have more information to share.

If you can provide description of a reproducible problem with Airflow software, you can open
issue at `GitHub issues <https://github.com/apache/airflow/issues>`__

Using Production Docker Images
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

More details: :doc:`docker-stack:index`

**When this option works best**

This installation method is useful when you are familiar with Container/Docker stack. It provides a capability of
running Airflow components in isolation from other software running on the same physical or virtual machines with easy
maintenance of dependencies.

The images are build by Apache Airflow release managers and they use officially released packages from PyPI and official constraint files
- same that are used for installing airflow from PyPI.

**Intended users**

Users who are familiar with Containers and Docker stack and understand how to build their own container images.

Users who understand how to install providers and dependencies from PyPI with constraints if they want to extend or customize the image.

> Users who now how to create deployments using Docker by linking together multiple docker containers and maintaining such deployments.

Reviewer 2: What do you think to mention explicitly that this method causes the least problems with installing Airflow?  Each installation is restored to the same initial state.

Author: I deliberately wanted to avoid an `assesment` which method is better or worse. I think first of all we can be biased becaue we have certain experience, and secondly - more importantly, this page is for very different people with diverse backgrounds, experience, expectations. 

Something that might be "easiest" for me might be not "easiest" for someone who does not know anything about docker, containers and Kubernetes. It's not for us to judge,  the whole idea of that page is to give the users an objective comparison of what is expected from them if they choose certain path, what experience is needed, and what help and resources they will get. Then, those different users, based on their own backgrounds, habits. expectations, experience, use cases, might make their own choice. 

I think it would very biased to tell that one option is "better" than "other" if we do not know who is reading that document

automated startup and recovery, maintenance, cleanup and upgrades of Airflow and the Airflow Providers.

With the Official Airflow Docker Images, upgrades of Airflow and Airflow Providers which
are part of the reference image are handled by the community - you need to make sure to pick up
those changes when released by upgrading the base image. However you are responsible in creating a
pipeline of building your own custom images with your own added dependencies and Providers and need to
repeat the customization step and building your own image when new version of Airflow image is released.

You might also want to upgrade your image independently with new Providers when they are released
independently from releasing the Airflow image.

**What Apache Airflow Community provides for that method**

You have instructions: :doc:`docker-stack:build` on how to build and customize your image.

You also have `quick start guide </start/index>`_ where you can see an example of Quick Start docker-compose which
you can use to start Airflow quickly for local testing and development. However this is just an inspiration.

> Do not expect this docker-compose is ready for production installation, you need to get familiar

Reviewer 2: Here I am not sure when we are talking about the `docker-compose.yaml` file and when we are talking about the Docker compose product.  Google has made recommendations on how to reference files. See: https://developers.google.com/style/filenames

Author: I rephrased it.

with docker-compose and its capabilities and build your own production-ready deployment.

> Docker-compose is only one of the available options of deployments of containers. You can use

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Docker Compose is only one of the available options of deployments of containers. You can use
```

Author: Rephrased.

use Kubernetes and want to install and maintain Airflow using the community-managed Kubernetes installation
mechanism via Helm chart.

It provides not only a capability of running Airflow components in isolation from other software
running on the same physical or virtual machines and managing dependencies, but also it provides capabilities of
easier maintaining, configuring and upgrading Airflow in the way that is standardized and will be maintained
by the community.

The Chart uses the Official Airflow Production Docker Images to run Airflow.

**Intended users**

Users who are familiar with Containers and Docker stack and understand how to build their own container images.

Users who understand how to install providers and dependencies from PyPI with constraints if they want to extend or customize the image.

Users who manage their infrastructure using Kubernetes and manage their applications on Kubernetes using Helm Charts.

**What are you expected to handle**

You are expected to be able to customize or extend Container/Docker images if you want to
add extra dependencies. You are expected to put together a deployment built of several containers

> (for example using docker-compose) and to make sure that they are linked together.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(for example using Docker Compose) and to make sure that they are linked together.
```
